Data: its collection of information
Structured data: Tabular data
Ex: Data warehouse, ERP, CRM
Service: Azure SQL DB


Semi-Structured data:
It has some organizational framework but does not have the complete Structure 
Ex: CSV, XML, JSON
Service: Azure Cosmos DB


Un Structured data:
where data has no organized format
Ex: Audio files, Video files, Binary data files 
Service: Azure Blob Storage

Datastores:
1. File Storage
2. Database


File Storage: The ability to store data in files is a core element of any computing system
different types of file storage
1. Delimited text files: Data is often stored in plain text format with specific field delimiters and row terminators
    ex: .CSV, .TSV 

2. JavaScript Object Notation: JSON is a ubiquitous format in which a hierarchical document schema is used to define data entities (objects)
    ex: .JSON

3. Extensible Markup Language: XML is a human-readable data format XML uses tags enclosed in angle-brackets (<../>) to define elements and attributes
    ex: .XML

4. Binary Large Object: Ultimately, all files are stored as binary data (1's and 0's), but not in the human-readable formats
    ex: BLOB


Optimized file formats:
1. Avro 
2. ORC  (Optimized Row Columnar format)
3. Parquet 


Non-relational databases:
1. Key-value databases
2. Document databases
3. Column family databases
4. Graph databases


Transaction System (OLTP):
stores Day to Day transactions 


Analytical System (OLAP):
extracts information from OLAP and provides insights  


Data ingestion: it is the process of importing or obtaining data
-> Data can be collected in Batch or Stream


Data Processing: converting data from raw format to some sort of meaningful data
Services: Functions, Data bricks, Cognitive Services


Batch Processing: Buffer and process data in groups 
Ex: Credit card bill, Monthly statements 
-> large volume of data can be processed
-> can utilize systems when they are free


Streaming Processing: Handel's data in the real-time, process when it arrives
Ex: Stocks, YouTube
-> can only process a small volume of data but in real-time


ETL (Extract Transform Load):
-> Raw data is Transformed and then loaded to DB
-> suitable for low complex systems (Transformation will take large time if the system is complex)
-> Basic cleaning, remove duplicate data and remove unwanted and sensitive data 
-> ETL can help us with data privacy and compliance and it removes sensitive data before adding to DB
Services: SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services)


ELT (Extract Load Transform):
-> Raw data is loaded to DB and then Transformed
-> suitable for complex systems
-> Best suite for Batch Processing
Services: Azure Data Factory, Azure HDInsight, Azure Data bricks 

Reports: process of organizing data into information 

Data Visualization: Graphical representation of information
Services: Power BI

Data Analytical: 

Descriptive analytics: 
-> what is happening, how is the sale in last month and last 3 months 

Diagnostic analytics: 
-> why is it happening, why was sale is low 

Predictive analytics:
-> what's likely to happen, what's going to happen

Prescriptive analytics:
-> what we can do with Predictive analytics

Cognitive analytics:
-> AL, ML, DL


Deployment types:
1. Azure portal
2. Azure CLI
3. Azure Power Shell
4. Azure resource template

DTU: Database transaction units

Azure SQL database advantages:
1. Fully managed (no administration and no maintainer) 
2. predictable performance and pricing
3. Elastic pool (where u can purchase large level of compute which can be used by multiple db's)
4. 99.99% uptime (52 min of downtime of year or 4.39 mins for month)
5. geo-replication  (for 100 % availability and diester management)
6. can connect with external tools
7. scaling with no downtime 




SQL   --   NoSql
DB           DB 
Table        Collection
Index        Index
Row          Document
Column       Field
Joining      Linking & Embedding





