https://www.interviewbit.com/rest-api-interview-questions/

WCF: (Windows Communication Foundation): It is a framework used for developing SOAP
API: (Application Programming Interface)for both web browsers and web servers

API:
       1. SOAP-based services and RESTful services
       2. supports various MVC features
       3. HTTP protocol

WCF:
       1. SOAP-based services
       2. No MVC features
       3. HTTP, UDP, custom transport



SOAP: (Simple Object Access Protocol)
framework used to exchange data from different applications developed in different languages
       1. Function - Driven
       2. API calls can not be cached
       3. WL Security, SSL 
       4. More band and cpu power
       5. XML
       6. HTTP, UDP, SMTP


REST: (Representational State Transfer)
its advanced version of SOAP to transfer data in many types 
       1. Data - Driven
       2. API calls can be cached
       3. HTTPS, SSL
       4. less cpu power and band 
       5. XML, JSON, YAML, Plain Text ect,.
       6. HTTP


XML -> used to transfer data its like HTML
JSON -> used to transfer data its like dic


SOP -> Same origin policy 
CORS -> Cross - Origin resorce sharing 

by default application will not allow ajax request from different origin so we need to config cors to over come SOP

ajax -> tech to call API asyncio using JS


1xx - represents informational responses
2xx - represents successful responses
3xx - represents redirects
4xx - represents client errors
5xx - represents server errors

Most commonly used status codes are:
200 - success/OK
201 - CREATED - used in POST or PUT methods.
304 - NOT MODIFIED - used in conditional GET requests to reduce the bandwidth use of the network. Here, the body of the response sent should be empty.
400 - BAD REQUEST - This can be due to validation errors or missing input data.
401- UNAUTHORIZED - This is returned when there is no valid authentication credentials sent along with the request.
403 - FORBIDDEN - sent when the user does not have access (or is forbidden) to the resource.
404 - NOT FOUND - Resource method is not available.
500 - INTERNAL SERVER ERROR - server threw some exceptions while running the method.
502 - BAD GATEWAY - Server was not able to get the response from another upstream server.


GET: This is used for fetching details from the server and is basically a read-only operation.
POST: This method is used for the creation of new resources on the server.
PUT: This method is used to update the old/existing resource on the server or to replace the resource.
DELETE: This method is used to delete the resource on the server.
PATCH: This is used for modifying the resource on the server.