I’ve had many difficult tasks throughout my career, 
and looking back realize they were some of the most impactful because they allowed for rapid growth.
out of which the best is handeling a project at my initial stages with out a mentor from my day 3 in profinnatioal crerrour
from scrach its sounds funny today 
at that time i use to see tutorials in first in morning and worked on my project in second session

comming to recent days from past 2 months i am working on ONDC project its a gonv project which is like UPI in e-com
it is tougest aurch i worked till date, which includes multiple protocalls, block chain, anysc APIs, call back URl's, 
multi level data mapping 
communicating with multiple 3rd party APIs 



Tell me about yourself:
my name is harnath and I am 24 years old,
I graduated with an engineering degree in 2019 from KL University
and was offered a Backend developer and from past 4 years I am as Backend full stack
luckily till date I worked for startups that too product based company where I got a chance to develop products from scratch 
from the first char of the project 
I am good in developing things using python along with Flask or FastAPI frameworks
I have experiencing in developing database and deploying solution at azure to certain extend 
I am from Ongole, proud to from a city which is well names for cattle bred
my father runes a small hardware store and my mother is a home maker, 
on short note that's all about be


https://www.interviewbit.com/hr-interview-questions/



You See Yourself in 5 Years:
In five years, I want to complete the self learning of AL/ML from the course I have enrolled 
and will actively looking on how to solve Realtime programs using my skills 
Krish Naik


I'm open to discussing, My salary requirements are flexible
However, based on my previous salary, my knowledge of the industry, and my understanding 
I would expect to receive something in the range of 22+.


I am looking out for an opportunity that allows me to work on interesting as well as challenging projects which allows me to learn new skills


I quite often underestimate the time it will take to do smaller jobs, I have to rush to get things done. Sometimes I miss deadlines


In my career till now I worked for StartUps as product eng but 





How do you manage your workload?
I prioritize my task by what is most important and urgent to least important and urgent. 
If there are some tasks that I can assign to others, I will also delegate.


What kind of work environment do you prefer?
I am flexible to my work environment. I can adapt according to almost any situation 
as i worked in start ups i am moulded to work at any kind of sistuation.

Do you take your work home with you?
I know the importance of getting work done in a timely manner. So when I need to, I will take work home with me if needed.


How do you motivate your employees in tough times?
I believe that as a leader, I have to be the one who is constantly driving an atmosphere of positivity and focus. 
I make sure that I am acting and saying positive things about my employees. 
I remind them daily of the goals and celebrate as we accomplish them.

What do you think are important aspects of a team?
To have a diverse group of people who have a basis of trust and respect for each other. 
The communication level must be high and the ability to work together as a team.

What was the least rewarding part of your previous position?
Some of the paperwork that I would handle for another department on an occasional basis.


How would you go about delivering bad news or a decision that will not be popular?
I would state the news, the reasons behind the news/decision, and I would focus on the positives. 
I would also take time to ask questions or feedback and answer accordingly.


How do you establish rapport with a new employee?
I will have an initial one on one meeting with the new employee to let them know what my expectations are and also learn about how they like to be managed. 
That’s a way I will understand how to be effective when I communicate with them.


How do you manage the performance of your employees?
Me and the employee, together, will create achievable goals based on the company goals and their own goals. On a regular basis, I will give feedback to my employees on how they are performing.







