Redis: REmote DIctionary Server  (ANSI C language)
redis-server start
redis-server restart
redis-server stop



Conenect server: redis-cli -h host -p port -a password 


redis-cli -> start server 
SELECT 10 -> it will select DB 10 in rediswill have DB from 0-15


Redis:
1. Stores everything in primary memory (in memory database)
2. R/W operations are extremely fast
3. Primary memory is in lesser in size and super costely
4. can also be used as primary DB like SQL
5. single threaded (DIS)
6. Data replication is supported.
7. We can use several data types here.

Normal Database:
1. Stores everything in secondary memory
2. R/W operations are slow
3. Secondary memory is in abundant in size 


Memcached:
1. Data replication is not supported.
2. multi threaded (DIS)
3. We can only single data types here.


TTL -> time to live (gives in howmany sec key will expire)
TYPE -> datatype
EXPIRE -> helps to set expire to the key 
Fsysnc() -> calling this function for every second will help us to retrive data loss till last but one second (durability of Redis be enhanced)

SUNION- union of all the sets that are given.
a: 1,2,3
b: 3,4,5
SUNION: 1,2,3,4,5

SINTER- intersection of all the sets that are given.
a: 1,2,3
b: 3,4,5
SUNION: 3

Sharding: also called partitioning, refers to the data's splitting by the key. We use sharding to increase performance and to reduce the hit as well as memory load on a single resource.
Replication: also called mirroring, refers to copying all the data. This helps to get high availability of reads. The hit rate on all the resources will reduce if you are reading from multiple replicas. But the memory requirement remains the same for all the resources.

DataTypes:
0. Keys:
    Note − A key value can be at max 512 MB in length.
    case 

    SET name "tutorialspoint"    (will create varible name with tutorialspoint as value)
    GET name                     (will get value related to name varible)
    DEL name                     (will delete name varible)
    
    to get data back we have 2 cmds KEYS and SCAN 
    
    KEYS tutorial*               (will return all varible names starting with tutorial)
    SCAN 0 tutorial*

    KEYS:
    1. not good for production
    2. only for debugging
    3. very slow if there is huge data  

    SCAN:
    1. good for production
    3. very fast if there is huge data  

    to delete data we have 2 cmds DEL and UNLINK 
    DEL: will delete data in blocking mode if the value assocated with key is too long it will block redis for some time to delete 
    UNLINK: will just un link and delete it asyc 

    size is less than 64 go for DEL or else UNLINK

1. String
    Note − A string value can be at max 512 MB in length.
    INCRC name          (will incress name value by 1)
    INCRCBY name 20       (will incress name value by 20)
    DECRBY name 2
    DECRC
    EXISTS name
    EXPIRE                       Sets the expiry of the key after the specified time in sec
    STRLEN name                  len of varible
    TYPE name                    data type of value stored in varible 

2. Hashes
    A hash is a collection of key value pairs (dict)
    Note − Every hash can store up to 2^32 - 1 field-value pairs (more than 4 billion).
    
    HSET key feild1 value1 feild2 value2 feild2 value2 
    HGETALL key
    HGET key field
    HSCAN
    HDEL key
    HINCBY      key feild value
    HINCBYFLOAT key feild value

    HEXISTS key

    HMSET user:1 username tutorialspoint password tutorialspoint points 200 
    HMSET myhash field1 "foo" field2 "bar"  (inserts multiple keys and values into system)
    HGET myhash field1                      (will get value related to field1 key in myhash varible)
    HKEYS myhash                            (List of keys in hash)
    HLEN myhash                             (Len of hash )

3. Lists
    LPUSH tutoriallist redis 
    LPUSH tutoriallist redis2
    LPUSH tutoriallist redis3
    RPUSH   key value 
    LPOP    key value 
    RPOP key value 
    LLEN key 
    LRANGE key start stop 
    LTRIM key start stop

    
    
    lRANGE tutoriallist 0 10 
    tutoriallist =  [redis, redis2, redis3] (final value)
    Note − The max length of a list is 232 - 1 elements

4. Sets
    SADD tutoriallist redis 
    SADD tutoriallist redis2
    SADD tutoriallist redis2

    SMEMBERS tutoriallist  
    tutoriallist =  {redis, redis2} (final value)
    Note − The max length of a list is 232 - 1 elements

    SCARD key               -> len of set 
    SISMEMBER key value     -> checks weather value in set returns 1 or 0
    SINTER key1 key2        -> set intersection
    SRIM key value1 value2  -> removes multiple keys from set 
    SPOP key                -> removes 1 random value from set 
    SPOP key 3              -> removes 3 random value from set

5. Sorted Sets
    ZADD        key score member 
    ZRIM        key member              (removes value in set)
    ZINCRBY     key increment member    (incress by increment value)
    ZRANGE      key start end           (will sort data from low ro high )
    ZREVRANGE   key start end           (will sort data from low ro high )
    ZRANKE      key value               (will result rank of that value )
    ZREVRANKE   key value               (will result rev-rank of that value )
    ZSCORE      key value               (will return score of the value given )
    ZCOUNT      key min max             (will return count of members between min and max score)
    ZRANGEBYSCORE   key min max off-ser 
    ZRANGEBYLEX key min max
    ZRIMBYRANK
    ZRIMBYSCORE
    ZRINBYLEX




Search Types: (Week 2)
1. Object Inspection 
2. Faceted Search (Set Intersection)
3. Hashed index or keys

Object Inspection:
get data to your code level and inspect very slow with huge data 

Set Intersection:
createing lists, sets, Sortedsets and filtering them using intersection

Hashed index or keys:
SHA-512 MD5
RIPEMD160
Key syntex:  hsf:has_hvalue


Transaction:
if cmd queued up and connection is lost, none of the cmds will be executed 

MULTI       indicates start of a transaction 
EXEC        will exec the commentds 
DISCORD     will discord all existing commends in queue


until unless EXEC is given all the cmds in transaction will queued up 
MULTI in MULTI cmd is not possible 


Fsysnc() -> calling this function for every second will help us to retrive data loss till last but one second (durability of Redis be enhanced)
