Content:
1. Memory Allocation
2. Cloud Computing Services
3. SSO

DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) principle is a software development principle that states that developers should not duplicate code
DIE (Duplication Is Evil) 



memory is managed by the Python manager
Allocation: The procedure of providing memory to objects
1. Static Memory Allocation
2. Dynamic Memory Allocation

Static Memory Allocation:
1. memory allocation happens at the compile time (Ex: C, C++)
2. we cannot use the memory again in the further program
3. Stack data structure is used to store the static memory

Dynamic Memory Allocation:
1. memory allocation happens at the run time
2. can free update heap 
3. Heap data structure is used to store the dynamic memory

Cloud Computing Services 
1. IAAS (will get infra from provider and we need to develop software)
2. PAAS (will get infra with platform with multiple frame works we focus on application development)
3. SAAS (will get software as a solution we need to pay and use it )


SSO (Single Sign On): authentication schema allowes user to sign in to different applications using same ID
flow of SSO:

How to design a secure web API access:
1. Token based authentication
2. HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) authentication

Token based authentication Flow:
1. enter password 
2. if valid recive token 
3. send request using token 
4. if its a valid token recive response 

HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code):
1. request API key 
2. receive API key 
3. Generate HMAC A key or signature at client side 
4. send request using generated signature
5. Generate HMAC B key or signature at Server side
6. compares HMAC A and HMAC B if valid send respons 





CA: if particular information cannot be guaranteed to be up to date due to network partitioning
AC: availability over consistency, the system will always process the query and try to return the most recent available

RDBMS(SQL) choose consistency over availability,
NoSQL: choose availability over consistency.

scle + micro service we can not achibe CAP at a time



https://www.linkedin.com/in/%F0%9F%90%8Dharnath-atmakuri-67b948124/
