Relational Database:
1. Data is stored in tables
2. Tables are connected by relationships
3. SQL is used to query the data

Non-Relational Database:
1. Data is stored in collections
2. Collections are connected by relationships
3. NoSQL is used to query the data


row: record (individual entity)
column: field (attribute of the record)

Primary Key: unique identifier for each record in a table
Foreign Key: unique identifier for each record in another table
Unique Key: unique identifier for each record in a table



Normalization: 
process of organizing data in a database to reduce data redundancy and improve data integrity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBPQ5fg_kiY



3. What are indexes in PostgreSQL, and why are they important?

Answer:
Indexes in PostgreSQL are special lookup tables that the database search engine uses to speed up data retrieval. Simply put, an index is a pointer to data in a table. Indexes are important for improving the speed of data retrieval operations on a database table at the cost of additional writes and storage space to maintain them.

4. Explain the VACUUM command in PostgreSQL. Why is it used?

Answer:
The VACUUM command is used to reclaim storage occupied by dead tuples (rows). In PostgreSQL, when rows are updated or deleted, the old versions of the rows are not physically removed during the transaction; instead, they are marked as dead. VACUUM cleans up these dead tuples, making space available for future use and preventing table bloat. Regular use of VACUUM is crucial for removing these obsolete rows and maintaining database performance.

Intermediate to Complex Questions
5. What are transactions in PostgreSQL, and how do you manage them?

Answer:
Transactions in PostgreSQL are sequences of operations performed as a single logical unit of work that must be either entirely completed or entirely failed. They provide properties described as ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability). Transactions are managed with the commands:


Describe the different types of JOINs available in PostgreSQL.

Answer:
PostgreSQL supports several types of JOINs, including:

INNER JOIN: Returns records that have matching values in both tables.
LEFT OUTER JOIN: Returns all records from the left table, and matched records from the right table; if there is no match, the result is NULL on the side of the right table.
RIGHT OUTER JOIN: The opposite of LEFT JOIN, returning all records from the right table, and matched ones from the left.
FULL OUTER JOIN: Combines LEFT and RIGHT JOIN, returning records when there is a match in one of the tables.
CROSS JOIN: Returns the Cartesian product of both tables.
7. Explain how PostgreSQL uses MVCC (Multi-Version Concurrency Control).

Answer:
MVCC in PostgreSQL is used to control data consistency when multiple transactions are occurring concurrently without locking the data. Instead of overwriting live data, PostgreSQL keeps past versions of a row in the same table, which allows for "time travel" within the database and querying an older snapshot of the database, thus increasing concurrency and performance.

8. How does PostgreSQL handle replication and what are the types of replication available?

Answer:
PostgreSQL handles replication by streaming changes from a primary server to one or more secondary servers. Replication can be synchronous or asynchronous. In synchronous replication, the primary waits for confirmation from the secondary server before committing a transaction, ensuring no data loss. In asynchronous replication, the primary does not wait, which can lead to faster performance but at the risk of potential data loss.

9. Discuss partitioning in PostgreSQL. Why is it used and what are the benefits?

Answer:
Partitioning in PostgreSQL involves splitting a large table into smaller, more manageable pieces, while keeping the structure of the data intact. It is used to improve query performance, manage large tables, and assist in quicker data access for specific queries based on partition keys. The benefits include improved query performance, easier management of large datasets, and enhanced data retention strategies.

10. What are some ways to optimize a PostgreSQL query?

Answer:
To optimize a query in PostgreSQL:

Use appropriate indexes: Indexes are critical for improving data retrieval times.
Avoid SELECT *: Retrieve only the columns needed.
Use ANALYZE to collect statistics that help the PostgreSQL query



JS 









Different types od DBMS languages:

Data definition language (DDL):
commands which are required to define the database.
E.g., CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE, RENAME, etc.

Data manipulation language (DML):
commands which are required to manipulate the data present in the database.
E.g., SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT, DELETE, etc.

Data Control Language (DCL):  
commands which are required to deal with the user permissions and controls of the database system.
E.g., GRANT and REVOKE.

Transaction Control Language (TCL):  
commands which are required to deal with the transaction of the database.
E.g., COMMIT, ROLLBACK, and SAVEPOINT.

data is stored in blocks in SQL
Postgres block  can hold 8KB of data 

My SQL Advantages:
1. free 
2. Open sorce
3. RDBS 
4. fast and reliable, scalable
5. easy to use 

RDBMS (Relational Database Management System): used to maintain DB
SQL: Structured Query Language

SELECT - extracts data from a database
UPDATE - updates data in a database
DELETE - deletes data from a database
INSERT INTO - inserts new data into a database
CREATE DATABASE - creates a new database
ALTER DATABASE - modifies a database
CREATE TABLE - creates a new table
ALTER TABLE - modifies a table
DROP TABLE - deletes a table
CREATE INDEX - creates an index (search key)
DROP INDEX - deletes an index
WHERE - is used to filter records.
ORDER BY - sort the result-set in ascending or descending order.
LIMIT - used to specify the number of records to return.
LIKE - search for a specified pattern
BETWEEN - selects values within a given range
UNION - combine the result-set of two or more SELECT statements. (but only unique values )
UNION ALL - combine the result-set of two or more SELECT statements. (but allows duplicates as well )
GROUP BY - statement groups rows that have the same values into summary rows
HAVING - works like ware condition for group by conditions (aggregate functions)
EXISTS - 
ANY - 
ALL - 
IFNULL - 
COALESCE - 

-- single line comments 
/* */ - multi line comments 


CASE -its acts like if condition 
CASE
    WHEN condition1 THEN result1
    WHEN condition2 THEN result2
    WHEN conditionN THEN resultN
    ELSE result
END;

% and _ are called as Wildcard Characters

a% -  start with "a"
%a -  ends with "a"
%a% -  a in any position
_a -  a in second position
__a - a in third position
a_  - starting with a and need to have atleast 2 char in word 
a__  - starting with a and need to have atleast 3 char in word 
a%b  - starts with a and ends with b


INNER JOIN: common between A and b
LEFT JOIN: Returns all records from the left table, and the matched records from the right table
RIGHT JOIN: Returns all records from the right table, and the matched records from the left table
CROSS JOIN: Returns all records from both tables
SELF JOIN: joining same table 

MIN()
MAX()
COUNT()
AVG()
SUM()
substring(FIRST_NAME,1,3) --> select only 1 to 3 char in column
INSTR(FIRST_NAME, BINARY'a') --> serch for first occr
RTRIM(FIRST_NAME) --> rstrip()
LTRIM(FIRST_NAME) --> lstrip()
distinct () --> for unique
length() --> len()
REPLACE()
CONCAT(FIRST_NAME, ' ', LAST_NAME)

MOD (WORKER_ID, 2) <> 0 --> select only odd rows
MOD (WORKER_ID, 2) = 0 --> select only even rows
CURDATE() --> date
NOW() --> time
DATETIME() --> datetime
TOP 10 --> select top 10 
LIMIT --> select upto 10 from start 
LIMIT n-1,1 to select 5th row n = 5 
OFFSET rows_to_skip FETCH NEXT number_of_rows ROWS ONLY

SELECT * INTO WorkerClone FROM Worker --> copy things from Worker to WorkerClone
 

INTERSECT --> common records from two table
MINUS --> different records

select id, 
       details->>'$.name' as browser_str,
       details->'$.name' as browser_name
       from users;

->>  gives with " "
-> normal string

UNION removes duplicate records (where all columns in the results are the same), UNION ALL does not.

HAVING --> clause in SQL is used to filter records in combination with the GROUP BY clause. It is different from WHERE, since the WHERE clause cannot filter aggregated records.
DELETE --> statement is used to delete rows from a table (Specific).
TRUNCATE --> command is used to delete all the rows from the table and free the space containing the table.
DROP --> command is used to remove an object from the database






index is an on-disk structure associated with a table or view that speeds retrieval of rows from the table or view

Uses:
1. faster retrieval of records on a database table
2. applied on columns 

PRIMARY KEY - clustered index
rest all are non-clustered index
Types of Index
Clustered indexes:
1. used to store and sort data in table (No extra storage)
2. Only one Clustered indexe is allowed for table (PK) 
3. table is called a clustered table
4. It is faster than non clustered index 
5. ID is always 1
6. Ex: PK

Non Clustered indexes:
1. creates a seperate key value pares or a table of pointers to store location of data 
2. Need extra storage to store infomation
3. ID is always > 1
4. Ex: UK


when you create a table with a UNIQUE constraint, Database Engine automatically creates a nonclustered index
if you configure a PRIMARY KEY, Database Engine automatically creates a clustered index
trying to create another PK then Database Engine automatically creates a non clustered index PK


Table can not have multiple PK but we can achive this using composite primary key

composite key: made by the combination of two or more columns in a table that can be used to uniquely identify each row in the table when the columns are combined uniqueness of a row is guaranteed, but when it is taken individually it does not guarantee uniqueness
