Vertical Scaling: adding more resources to the existing server 
like: increasing CPU, Memory ect.,

Horizontal Scaling: adding replicas like new servers 

------------------------------

Redundancy: its the practice of dluplicating critical resources for high availability and fault tolerance

types:
Hardware Redundancy: Multiple componsnts running, hard start by or cold start (Manual start) by if required 
Data Redundancy: having data backups, Replications in different servers  (master database having slave database replicas of data )
Network Redundancy; Failover Mechanisms, load balancers
Geographic Redundancy: having servers deployed in different servers 

Advantages: high availability, fault tolerance, improved performance
Disadvantages: high cost, complex to maintain 

Redundancy patterns:

N + 1: N active server componenets and 1 back up 
2N:  N active  and N backup 
2N + 1: combines both N+ 1 and 2N 

------------------------------

Fault Tolerance: Ability of system to handle things even some conponents are failed 

Implementation Techniques:

Graceful Degradation: continuous with reduced functionallity (pulling data from cache)
Fail-Fast: System failed (sending error messages)
Fail-Safe: System running on default operations (Traffic lights default to red when power fails)
Fail-Silent: System servers with out using those failed componenets

------------------------------

Content Delivery Networks (CDN): Distributed servers located across the globe cache data and deliver it 

Mainly used for: Images, Video, huge data pages 

Flow:
user request to CDN server (closest) 

cache hit: will deliver the request resorce
cache fail: CDN server will call to original server cache the data in CDN and deliver

Advantages: less cost (less bandwidth is used), high availability, less Latency 

------------------------------

Persistence: data stored in away that data is not lost if system goes down or restarted 

Storage devices like Hard disk, SSD, Databases are Persistence  (will have information until curropted)
Memory (Non Volatile Storages) like RAM, varibles declared in programs and scripts 

------------------------------

Centralized system: where all processing, data storage, and control are handled by a single central node (server or mainframe). 
All clients or users connect to this central point.

easy to manage, Single point of failure, 

Distributed System: system is a collection of independent computers (nodes) that work together as a single system. Data and processing are spread across multiple machines, often in different locations.

hard to manage, easy to scale up and down, Fault tolerance (if one failes other can take care)

------------------------------

Latency: Time take to for data to go  from one point to another point of system 
Low  Latency (need to be fast):  Eg: Online Gamming, Live Trading, Video conferance, Bidding application
High Latency (ok to be slow): Email, Reports tools (SAP, Tableau), Background processing tasks (Updates, batch processing)

Throughput: Amount of data can be processing in given time 

Low Throughput: Eg: Personal applications, HR applications in small scale, small inventory management

High Throughput: Eg: Payment gateways, Social system platforms, search engines, 

------------------------------

Hashing: Process of comverting data to a fixed side of value (usually into int) out put is called hash value or hash code

Same input will have same hash value all ways 

small change in input will have a big differnce in hash value 

Why hashing 

Fast lookup (python dicts, java hash maps)
Secure (Encrypted data, Authentication)
Data Deduplication (Allows to skip deduplicate files )
Even distribution (Load Balancing (Consistent hashing))

Consistent hashing (Need to look)

------------------------------

Refer: Redis_Caching_Strategies.ipynb 
Top Redis Caching Strategies:

Strategy:
cache-aside (Cold Start, Read-Heavy Applications, No Stale Data, E-commerce platforms)
write-through-cache (High Latency, no stale issue, Good Consistency, Simple)
write-behind-cache/write-back (High Write, risk of data loss, Complexity,  Logging systems)
read-through-cache (Read Heavy, no stale issue, Good Consistency, Simple)

TTl: (Time-to-Live)
1. based on a time, up to how many seconds 

Cache stampede: Also known as cache avalanche, where multiple requests where made for same data and data is not availability or got expaired 
all started hitting database leading Hight throughput in database or sudden spike in database load 

Cache Warming: preloading cache with frequent accessed data initally, skiping cold start 

Cache Eviction Strategy

Least Recently Used (LRU)
Least Frequently Used (LFU)
First-In-First-Out (FIFO)
Random Replacement
------------------------------
Stateful vs Stateless Architecture

Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QDiPjMWeVC0

Stateful: where information is stick to only specific device or server and tightely coupled with the device 

example if:
amazon cart or hotstore movie pase inforamtion will be limited to device you used 
auth like if when you re connect to different server it will ask to login again even you are in same device (only irctc login)

No Scalability, Reliability, sticky session, distributed sessions 

Stateless: where information will be stored in different devices and it can be accessed any where or from any server 

example if:
amazon cart or hotstore movie pase inforamtion will be shared across the devices 
login it you re connect to another server if it is able to connect from session data of old server 

good Scalability, Reliability, CI/CD

------------------------------

Rate Limiting: Cap on number of request user can make in a specific window 
Patterns:
1. Fixed Window Pattern
2. Sliding Window Pattern, Leaky Bucket Pattern, Token Bucket Pattern (Common for both)
3. Counter Pattern

Throttling: Control how fast requests sre processed 

1. Token Bucket Pattern
2. Leaky Bucket Pattern
3. Sliding Window Pattern
4. Priority Queue Pattern
5. Adaptive Throttling Pattern
6. Circuit Breaker Pattern


Content:
1. Memory Allocation
2. Cloud Computing Services
3. SSO

memory is managed by the Python manager
Allocation: The procedure of providing memory to objects
1. Static Memory Allocation
2. Dynamic Memory Allocation

Static Memory Allocation:
1. memory allocation happens at the compile time (Ex: C, C++)
2. we cannot use the memory again in the further program
3. Stack data structure is used to store the static memory

Dynamic Memory Allocation:
1. memory allocation happens at the run time
2. can free update heap 
3. Heap data structure is used to store the dynamic memory

Cloud Computing Services 
1. IAAS (will get infra from provider and we need to develop software)
2. PAAS (will get infra with platform with multiple frame works we focus on application development)
3. SAAS (will get software as a solution we need to pay and use it )


SSO (Single Sign On): authentication schema allowes user to sign in to different applications using same ID
flow of SSO:

How to design a secure web API access:
1. Token based authentication
2. HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) authentication

Token based authentication Flow:
1. enter password 
2. if valid recive token 
3. send request using token 
4. if its a valid token recive response 

HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code):
1. request API key 
2. receive API key 
3. Generate HMAC A key or signature at client side 
4. send request using generated signature
5. Generate HMAC B key or signature at Server side
6. compares HMAC A and HMAC B if valid send respons 





CA: if particular information cannot be guaranteed to be up to date due to network partitioning
AC: availability over consistency, the system will always process the query and try to return the most recent available

RDBMS(SQL) choose consistency over availability,
NoSQL: choose availability over consistency.

scle + micro service we can not achibe CAP at a time



https://www.linkedin.com/in/%F0%9F%90%8Dharnath-atmakuri-67b948124/
